all right I'll get started well welcome
everyone today I'll be speaking about
an update to cap
67  which is the unified events cap
67 which is the unified events cap
so so a recent change was made  where
so so a recent change was made where
with the goal of  reaching feature
with the goal of reaching feature
parody with regards to Memos in seller
classic and more specifically  you
classic and more specifically you
know batch payments within a transaction
with different mxed operation Source
accounts are possible in classic  and
accounts are possible in classic and
this is a way you can make batch
payments to an exchange so we wanted to
make  similar functionality possible
make similar functionality possible
in
sorun  so the the proposed solution is
sorun so the the proposed solution is
to add an extension function called
transfer with memo to the Token standard
if if you want to support memos so
the function takes an optional optional
memos for both the from and two
addresses and will emit  transfer
addresses and will emit transfer
event with a new topic  that is a
event with a new topic that is a
vector of memos  this this format does
vector of memos this this format does
need to be discussed though there's
there's been a lot of discussion on this
recently  so if we don't expect that
recently so if we don't expect that
the memos to be filtered on then it
should actually be in the data field
but putting putting this into the data
field will be a breaking change which is
why I didn't initially update the
proposal for that  because the data
proposal for that because the data
field is currently an integer instead of
a map  but one of the options is is
a map but one of the options is is
making that breaking change and updating
that  and the the other option is to
that and the the other option is to
split the if you want do want the top
memos to be filtered on is to split
that Vector two separate  memo fields
that Vector two separate memo fields
in the topic  so we leave the the
in the topic so we leave the the
memos in the topics and allow them to be
filtered on there  and instead of so
filtered on there and instead of so
those are updates to the transfer event
the other alternative is instead of
emitting the transfer event  we ALS we
emitting the transfer event we ALS we
emit a we still we emit the transfer
event as it exists today and then we
emit an additional transfer with memo
event  with the with the memo
event with the with the memo
information so if you care about the
memo you consume that event as well
and there's also an alternative proposal
in the thread I just linked from Dima to
First Class the MOX count type which is
which is a a different proposal from the
transfer with
memo  a methodology that that the cap
memo a methodology that that the cap
defines  so yeah there I know there's
defines so yeah there I know there's
a lot of  there a lot of opinions on
a lot of there a lot of opinions on
what we should do here I don't know if
anyone wants to chime in maybe Lee or
dimma
yeah I guess I could quickly present my
option
and  recap some points I've made in
and recap some points I've made in
the discussion Regarding why do I think
that my proposal might be a better
option than an explicit operation
code transfer with memo and the gist of
The Proposal is that
we make it so from
the  client
the client
standpoint  the mark addresses  do
standpoint the mark addresses do
not look  like do not require any
not look like do not require any
special treatment meaning that you can
create an st
Val  that  represents for example
Val that represents for example
Max classic account and pass it as out
to the
contract and and  changes are only
contract and and changes are only
necessary on the contract side similar
to to the transfer memo option right the
changes are necessary on the contract
side to support this  because if
side to support this because if
you're are talking about the approach or
we literally have a transfer with memo
function we are kind of reinforcing the
memo concept that is really problematic
because like we have two different
identifiers
that the users need to care about and
we put it deeper into the protocol into
the token standards and then we just
expect down Downstream systems to handle
it in a special way to and if
represented this singular address I am
not sure if this is going to apply like
if if this has worked for example I
don't see why wouldn't like changes to
the trade they constantly get issues
with memers they could in theory build
an M address and vets could in theory
purse an M address and it back into memo
and g account  that doesn't happen
and g account that doesn't happen
because that's very cumbersome and that
Reise on a lot of parties to do the
right thing at the same time  whereas
right thing at the same time whereas
in my
proposal  the only thing that a v
proposal the only thing that a v
would need to do is well convert a
Spring key into an address which is like
call library function so there is no
need to somehow specially handle this
and we are kind of reinforcing a good
pattern of using Max
accounts and the the main benefit of Max
accounts is that they have a canonical
single address representation
and in general the user doesn't need to
worry about what exactly it is only s
it's they need to worry about is that
this is their address of their exchange
account quote unquote and they need to
deposit money to this account  and
deposit money to this account and
this is the only thing that they we need
to worry about so it's kind of the gist
of the proposals there are definitely
information details that could be
discussed but  I guess there was lot
discussed but I guess there was lot
of position on the whole idea of doing
doing this which honestly I'm still not
sure
I understand the reasons behind because
again
like  the transfer M proposal is like
like the transfer M proposal is like
doubling down on the memo hack that has
been existent in the protocol for a
while  so yeah that's kind
while so yeah that's kind
of  my side process
here with your propos proposal to  you
here with your propos proposal to you
you have a transfer function that would
take two different types right  it
take two different types right it
would either it could either take the
address object is exists today or among
yeah address object Bally I'd say the
main requirement is that on the client
side Al xdr should deal with  SC
side Al xdr should deal with SC
addresses that represent maxed accounts
can introduce a concept of Max contracts
as well that's the main
requirement then
everything else is going into the realm
of the implementation details and things
may be adjusted for quity if I think
that's needed like  but yeah in my
that's needed like but yeah in my
original proposals area was that
since the contract types are they by the
nature of our San design  they're
nature of our San design they're
polymorphic right or they variant types
basically right so  you can pass a
basically right so you can pass a
general Val that represents one of the
about of types to the contract which
means that  the layer of the contract
means that the layer of the contract
interfaces there shouldn't be an issue
for a contract to be able to accept not
only add dress object  in a function
only add dress object in a function
but  either an address object or maxed
but either an address object or maxed
address object  so is one way this can
address object so is one way this can
be implemented U on like the level of
the Cross contract interraction there is
of course definitely some stuff that
needs to be figured out how how exactly
do this DEC how do we represent this
interface at all but I don't think it's
impossible to achieve especially given
that it's kind of a narrow use case I
think it could be a separate interface
that you implement if you want to
support MOS  and this interface will
support MOS and this interface will
be compatible with the interface of the
Regional  token contract because
Regional token contract because
again  protocol itself does not
again protocol itself does not
enforce any  type restrictions  Ty
enforce any type restrictions Ty
restrictions happen at the contract
implementation layer so I think  yeah
implementation layer so I think yeah
can do
that and the same goes for the event
trade like  we can do different things
trade like we can do different things
about the events like we can a transfer
event we can like ex option and kind of
in favor of which is another benefit of
this approach is that since we have Max
accounts in the
protocol  what we could do is we could
protocol what we could do is we could
have a an additional field in the event
structure itself  for through this
structure itself for through this
mares  I don't know if it is too
mares I don't know if it is too
wasteful or not but at least this is an
option that we have that does not
require imited additional EV and also
does not mess up index and for those who
don't care about M so you could have a
set Vector of  the multiplex Tes
set Vector of the multiplex Tes
addresses in the event which would
generate automatically so yeah that's
kind
of one of the options that this opens up
as
well so the  the vent point you
well so the the vent point you
mentioned like that's a that's be done
with either approach right where we
separate the max
ID well it depends on versus goes
like in the transfer memo option it has
to go through the normal EV data
structure so it will either belong to
data or topics  with a protocol based
data or topics with a protocol based
approach we have an option of putting it
into a sort field that is not data and
not a topic Oh you mean the xdr
yeah in the xdr yes so if you don't care
about this you will not see it at all
and this event will quite a normal
transfer event
you interesting okay so that that would
require some  Downstream like some
require some Downstream like some
work in RPC to expose that additional
information right because I don't think
RPC currently exposes of course
everything course I mean sure any option
requires like some sort of additional
work somewhere yeah and
yeah it's not an argument Pro con it's
not a pro con of any approach yeah sorry
I Wasing wanted to say
something yeah so I think like we're
discussing a few different small
features  that all come together into
features that all come together into
sort of these two different ways that we
could implement this  and so I think
could implement this and so I think
the the four different features we're
talking about is  you know should the
talking about is you know should the
should it be an should it be an M
address or should it be a g address plus
a memo in the input and then the same
thing for the output the
event and then we're talking about
should we reuse the transfer function
the existing transfer function or should
we separate the this use of M memers
into a separate
function and then should we reuse the
transfer event or should we separate
them into the transfer with memo event
like each of these these things are like
separate decisions that we can
make  I think some of what you've
make I think some of what you've
alluded to De about you know the SDK
and you know what would this look like
in the S Cas so I understand I think
when we look at from the the host
interface  yes all values that come
interface yes all values that come
into a contract are a Val so it's a
little bit like if you're a Java
programmer and you're familiar with like
object you know you can you can make
your parameter coming into a function as
object or you can make it some type and
map to different types so you know we
could add nstk type that is I'm not sure
what we' call it any address I'm just
going to use the term any address right
now  and address could be this MX
now and address could be this MX
address or it could be the address we
have today so the MX address is an M
address and the address we have today is
a g or a c and
so we we could do that but we're sort of
adding  a lot more that I think every
adding a lot more that I think every
token developer is going to be exposed
to and going to have to learn about
and that's like that's a barrier to
entry that's a  a potential point of
entry that's a a potential point of
confusion so why I think that every
token developer will be exposed to this
is because  we can't change we can't
is because we can't change we can't
have that token interface be something
that's extendable so like right now the
SDK has if the function name is the same
so right now there's this token
interface in the S an SDK  and there's
interface in the S an SDK and there's
tooling built around that being built
around that  by folks like if you go
around that by folks like if you go
and have a look at like the open zeppin
contracts and stuff so there's like
tooling being both buil bu up around
being compatible with it  and we can't
being compatible with it and we can't
have like another trait that provides a
different type of transfer function that
has the same name and has a different
type as the
input so that means that somebody that
goes and implements you know one of
those traits their code might not be
compatible with someon the other type of
the trait  if we have two complete
the trait if we have two complete
different traits there sort of sort of
like it's very difficult it's not really
simple in Rust to you know rust doesn't
have this concept of like overloading
functions  so it's it's just yeah it's
functions so it's it's just yeah it's
a little bit difficult to figure out how
do we actually make that work so I think
like the develop like a narrative around
like what a developer experiences so
like on the surface I think like yeah
this  you know trying to build
this you know trying to build
everything into one function overloading
the type  these are all nice
the type these are all nice
engineering  these all seem like nice
engineering these all seem like nice
engineering decisions but the narrative
that actually results in for the for the
user of the
SDK is is reasonably complicated like
they need to learn about more things
whereas most custom token developers
probably don't need to know about MX
addresses they probably don't need to
know about any address  they probably
know about any address they probably
don't need to know about memos  like a
don't need to know about memos like a
lot of what we're adding for like Marx
address and memos is for
yeah I guess some specific UK US
cases where  the token Developers for
cases where the token Developers for
those specific U cases would need to be
aware of
them yeah I'm yeah I I've made a lot of
like I've answered a lot of these
questions in the discussion but yeah I
can answer again and I'd really like to
challenge a lot of your points because
well first thing is the developer
complexity  I think that transfer memo
complexity I think that transfer memo
option introduces developer complexity
arguably more developer complexity just
in different place and this place is St
like wets or block
explorers and I would argue that
complexity in these places is much worse
because instead of you know doing this
once or a few times in places like open
zeppin implementations for example right
you actually ask every developer to to
either resort to just present in this
transfer with memo operation literally
transfer with memo and you know  we we
transfer with memo and you know we we
kind of just repeat the mistake of
building them into protocol and we'll
have funds lost because people just
forget to paste memo in the operation or
you have a requirement for the
downstream developers to have the same
level of knowledge of what M must do but
the work around again if we like in case
of the SDK if there is at least some
possible way of building a samean
solution for the
developers  which we can discuss this
developers which we can discuss this
rain firms
options for the downstream it's
basically up to them for the
interpretation and I don't see a sane
way of standardizing this and making
sure that you know  every time address
sure that you know every time address
is an address but if you encounter
transfer res memo somewhere then this is
not an address this is Max address and
then if you encounter an M address and
user tries to make a transfer you
actually need to resort to this
different function and you need to break
it down  I think it's complicated I
it down I think it's complicated I
think it's more complicated than
messing a bit with r traes and  the
messing a bit with r traes and the
solutions that are proc involve like
what if token interface accepted just a
valve for examp example  which is
valve for examp example which is
that's type safe but you know token
implementation just makes a check if it
is address in one case Max address in
the other case  then like we don't
the other case then like we don't
even need separate traes or it just move
the check out of SDK autom magical type
conversion into  into the contract
conversion into into the contract
project there just one option we we can
think about more my point is that like
I feel like fundamentally this is
just a better place to put complexity
because it's higher upstream and
ultimately not many people need to deal
with it especially like you know if it's
always once and something like opens up
implementations but but also sorry one
last thing I wanted wait like one last
point I wanted to make I don't agree
that most of the token developers should
not care about memos  I think they do
not care about memos I think they do
because
like they probably would hope their
tokens being listed on the exchanges at
some point sooner or later so I
think in either option they will kind of
need to worry about this in one way or
another either by implementing transfer
B memo or Max Account Support  so yeah
B memo or Max Account Support so yeah
again I'm not sure if we are saving
something here
specifically yeah  yeah so I think one
specifically yeah yeah so I think one
thing I I think was interesting you you
talked about
the  you this this idea that like we
the you this this idea that like we
want to be able to encourage madress use
and we we we don't want to go down that
past where you know the two were
separated because that was you know a
mistake it was easy to forget them I
think we're conflating some of the
layers here so when esses were added
there were actually two problems to
solve so the first problem was people
not forgetting the the the memo and
displaying that information so
displaying that combined information in
just a single identify that they could
just copy and paste the wallet now the
second problem that had to be solved was
how do we get that information into the
existing transaction xdr the way that we
settled on solving that second piece is
actually largely an implementation
decision so that first piece is like the
actual problem the problem we were
trying to solve the user problem the
second piece was the implementation is
just implementation details and the way
we tried to solve that at the time which
was largely led by just the existing
structure of the xdr was was to put that
memo ID next to the account inside this
moxed account structure because we could
actually do that in a way that didn't
break a lot of the existing xdr but the
goal was really just to get the memo
alongside  each of these places where
alongside each of these places where
where where we needed to basically you
know attach to a destination or attach
it to the source so I think like that
last part is largely an implementation
decision the Sol the problem that was
originally solved with MOX accounts is
that first part you user copy and
pasting a single ID into their wallet
and I don't like both of the solutions
we're discussing here they both satisfy
that first problem which I think is like
you know if we're going to continue to
support MOX accounts that's like that's
sort of the thing we have to make sure
that continues to get solved  and
that continues to get solved and
otherwise like a lot of the those
details about you know does the wallet
split apart the M address wallets
already need to know about M addresses
so like that's not a big deal does the
or you know they could potentially we
could make the SDK easier at you know
doing that for them but  that's
doing that for them but that's
largely an implementation
detail
so I guess I'm not really seeing like
the connect with like how
adding continuing to propagate passing
those because I mean in the XTR like to
be really clear like in the XTR an M
address is still two parts the Melo is
still separated from the you know the
public here sure totally but the thing
is that again this transfer with memo we
have like two separate contract call
arguments and yeah of course it is an
implementation detail but this is a
detail that will cause a lot of bad
decisions Downstream wait again
one decision can we talk specifically
can we talk specifically about what
decisions are because because something
I just want to highlight is that
Downstream systems will want to filter
these events by the G address not by the
no no I'm not talking about the events
I'm talking about the
C and again to make me Point Clear like
I I'm not even insisting on any specific
solution to the events I'm talking
specific about how is this function
being called I'm arguing that transfer
mem is harmful because well you have a
functions that has four arguments and
downstream when you're building this
call  and trying to get user input for
call and trying to get user input for
it you basically have two options one
option is do what you do every other
time for every other function which is
like  have a strict matin of a cous to
like have a strict matin of a cous to
input function
arguments  what we are proposing here
arguments what we are proposing here
with transfer memos is that well in this
particular case they will need to
somehow
either  take M address as user input
either take M address as user input
and split it into two parts or I don't
know I'm not sure how this is supposed
to look like and then when we are
talking about R which again kind of us
with a function arguments we're in
exactly the same position where we kind
of need
to  in this particular case we need to
to in this particular case we need to
do something about like this mapin of
arguments that is normally one to one
and you know your code would be hey if I
say C address a render is a string key
but here is say no no no like you you
cannot render this as a string key you
actually need to render first and second
argument as this m spring key  so you
argument as this m spring key so you
know I I doubt this will work
and this is honestly like how again I
I made this point before like we can say
that transaction memo is an
implementation detail just renders
destination as an M address of memo plus
was a destination account like that
that works on paper if you have a single
payment  but we will don't do that
payment but we will don't do that
because it's like very unintuitive and
error prone  for
were you
there yep  just  I don't know if
there yep just I don't know if
George would like to George is typing
some things in here it sounds like he
has some perspective to
share don't know if he wants to join the
stage
sure yeah I mean I can just reiterate
what I put in the chat which is
pretty similar to Demus points I think
which is that  having separate
which is that having separate
functions for this and separate
parameters for this just reintroduces
the problem at the user layer that you
mentioned Lee which is that people
forget their memos right so by by
separating it out you're just
reintroducing that possible confusion
it seems to me that if we want
first class support
for  custodial wallets which is like
for custodial wallets which is like
the main user of M addresses then you
would want first class support and
transfers right and you would want that
to also be present in  custom tokens
to also be present in custom tokens
if if a token doesn't support M
addresses right then you can't use it in
the exchanges  which you know might be
the exchanges which you know might be
fine and might be a decision that the
token makes but I feel like we would
want to encourage that rather than make
it this very
distinct opt in thing that you have to
have a separate function to
handle you mentioned that people will
forget the memo but if an exchange is
still displaying in M address and the
wallet is receiving that M address I
mean if the wallet doesn't know what to
do with an M address it's going to
failed there's going to be some sort of
error but if a wet knows what to do with
an M address it's going to unpack
it  so I'm I'm I'm trying to figure
it so I'm I'm I'm trying to figure
out where is the use where is the
forgetting the memo paste coming
in you're suggesting we would continue
to use the M string key but not actually
propagate that at anything but the UI
layer
correct that's the layer that's like the
input into creating a transaction that's
the layer where this the M address came
about to solve the
problem I see and so the application
developer would be responsible for
dissecting the M address rather than
just passing it
along
yep now that's that's not without a cost
I
acknowledge but I think the cost like
this is we're discussing
tradeoffs yeah and the cost in the
solution I'm proposing is just using
new version of spring key library
because again it just Maps into address
but arguably things are a bit more
complex on the con side which yeah yeah
I'm not sure if it's necessarily
significantly more complex could you
elaborate on what you mean by an M
address maps to C
address  SC address sorry SC so so
address SC address sorry SC so so
basically when
because like what I'm proposing like I
want V to just wait do what they are
likely doing now right  it would paste
likely doing now right it would paste
the destination as a string key and you
can just take this string key  convert
can just take this string key convert
it into address SC well pass it to the
co  and this is like like this is what
co and this is like like this is what
you have to do now to support sound
transfers right and the only you will
need to do to support Max transfers as
well updates the libraries  things
well updates the libraries things
will magically work  it is a lot less
will magically work it is a lot less
work and a l a lot less chances of just
doing something
weird yeah what  what typically
weird yeah what what typically
happens in I think most sdks  George
happens in I think most sdks George
you can probably correct me if I'm wrong
about this or if it's not most but I
think what most stks do is you give them
a string so you give them the M address
or the G address and then the SDK is the
one that builds the MOX account on the
classic side  yeah whatever the xdr
classic side yeah whatever the xdr
types are so most applications don't
build the xdr types themselves but right
that's the point right but say
like do we make contract codes with just
like strings and even Z like you still
know need to know which contract code to
make right because your safe default
should probably be
transfer  but then or maybe the saet
transfer but then or maybe the saet
default should be transferred with memo
but that's not always going to
succeed  so there is definitely some L
succeed so there is definitely some L
of projects that needs to happen even
like ticated build calls just from the
strings  but I'm not even sure if
strings but I'm not even sure if
that's the case right because conversion
and building actual call is different
and here like we are mixing the
conversion and building the call because
currently again for each and every
contract call  the conversion is one
contract call the conversion is one
to one you have like two string keys and
an amount and this is argument to the
transfer and here is say well here is
like three two string keys and amount
but you need to M this to four arguments
and sure which where it should happen
this is like how capsulated in it decay
or V care about it or whatever client so
I don't
know maybe there is some good Solutions
there but but I feel like it's kind of
hacky and error prone
and then again as I pointed in the
discussion like BL explorers May
displays is differently as well so if
you were to check your transactions
there you would be
confused
yeah so I think we're I think like where
these different ideas were optimizing
for different things so I think
the proposal for  transfer with
the proposal for transfer with
memo is like very simple to add to the
SDK and the experience or the knowledge
about what you or what you need to know
about that extension of a token is
really isolated  and so I think like
really isolated and so I think like
there are benefits
to  developer onboarding for contract
to developer onboarding for contract
development in the Stellar e system
because of that and then I think the the
idea  that you're presenting is
idea that you're presenting is
optimizing for there being one interface
a single interface  people need to
a single interface people need to
learn with so people need to know about
this stuff so there's more for them to
maybe know up front as a contract
developer but once they know that
information it's a single
interface  and then an added benefit
interface and then an added benefit
of this is that in things like stks or
at that client level you do still get
like that single view of the M address
whereas with the First with the the
first proposal we don't you don't get
like the single view because clients
need to unpack things so I think like
these two different approaches are
optimizing for different things trading
off different things  I
off different things I
think  something that you mentioned
think something that you mentioned
before deer is like we don't we haven't
really figured out exactly what the SDK
would look like and what the experience
would be there maybe we need  you know
would be there maybe we need you know
assuming that we have all the time in
the world Maybe we need to actually do a
spike there
to make sure that we don't have any
unknowns and that we have a Clear Vision
for like what the contract developer
experience is going to
be yeah sure I agree that  prototype
be yeah sure I agree that prototype
wouldn't hurt  because yeah I want to
wouldn't hurt because yeah I want to
make
sure this makes sense aswi
I think  maybe we could discuss the
I think maybe we could discuss the
event portion of this so like I
I  earlier I listed out like there
I earlier I listed out like there
were like four micro decisions we sort
of need to make within these decisions
and one of those decisions or two of
those decisions is around the event so I
think we've talked quite a lot about
like the input the trans the transfer
function versus the transfer M function
and then you know should it be G memo
and M on the inputs for the outputs  I
and M on the inputs for the outputs I
don't think I saw in your proposal that
they would be an M address so so is are
both proposals consistent that whatever
the event is it would both the event
would contain a g and then a separate
memo yeah say don't have a strong
opinion we have options  and the
opinion we have options and the
tradeoffs are are like much less clear
to me because well  we could easily
to me because well we could easily
put M addresses right there in the event
and look the same but the concern is
that it will confuse consumers that
don't care about htic rate
which is why we could do either
separate field that is protocal defined
for this MOS  which has again a down
for this MOS which has again a down
set of B it's a protocal change and also
it adds with four bites to the all the
events
just kind of bad  but of course you
just kind of bad but of course you
can just do whatever you would do with
transfer this memo  by just you know
transfer this memo by just you know
providing ways of  getting the mar
providing ways of getting the mar
from and and then you can do basically
anything you want to structure and I
think U you know there is no difference
between transfer this memo and my
proposal the scenar we if the all
resarch to split Max address into two
parts  then they very can cze whatever
parts then they very can cze whatever
events we think are the best trade of
yeah the only distinctive thing about my
proposal that we had this yet another
option of having M thiz as a parallel
field to  topics and data  but other
field to topics and data but other
than that I don't have to strong opinion
on what the event should look like
yeah to's not here today but I did run
this by him yesterday like what u based
off what he knows from a product
perspective  would it make more sense
perspective would it make more sense
for exchangers to you know filter on or
exchangers or anchors to filter on that
m versus a jress his opinion was a Gess
I think we haven't I don't think we have
like
a survey of how people typically filter
but existing exchanges would be
given that historically there were
just a separate G and a memo are
probably filtering on G
address oh yeah totally I kind of like
we know status quo that most exchanges
use G+ memo  MH but they also don't
use G+ memo MH but they also don't
use the events which is what we're
discussing here
so there may be honestly an opportunity
here like to kind
of if people need to migrate anyway you
can kind of try to promote well
something maybe a bit but I think for
non- exchangers memos maybe kind of know
to deal this so right but exchanges
would be using
Horizon  and Horizon typically
Horizon and Horizon typically
uhit  imits in air quotes  Things
uhit imits in air quotes Things
based on account so
I think that's where like the the
idea that okay like exchangers they
currently collect these events affects
payments VI account so we should
probably just keep doing the same thing
in a mid Advance buy account  which I
in a mid Advance buy account which I
think makes sense because like these
topics are intended to be things that
you could filter on and so if I'm if I'm
running a system that's catering for n
number of events coming in to one g
but you know across like all those
n   number
n number
of moed IDs like it from a scaling
perspective it's difficult how would you
use an RPC to filter on all of those
things you wouldn't you'd be just You'
just have your system ingesting
everything relating to the geod and then
splitting them
out oh I see Nico he's
on yes so  yeah I guess you guys were
on yes so yeah I guess you guys were
talking yeah there's the you know number
two right that is the do you want to
expose the G Plus memo or the m in the
in the output right as an as an event
I think maybe we should maybe talk first
about number
four  in your list right that is is it
four in your list right that is is it
a single transer event or is it multiple
events because I think you know like
they are like  implications  in this
they are like implications in this
context like the the way I'm thinking
about this is that the tradeoff is that
so if we have separate events the
nice thing about it is that we keep the
transfer events for the  standard
transfer events for the standard
token contract as a you know fairly
clean like it's the same thing we don't
you know mess with it
the problem with that approach where
you have two events is that you need to
do some sort of
reconciliation  from The Exchange side
reconciliation from The Exchange side
if people send  so assuming that like
if people send so assuming that like
the The Exchange requires
memo but for some reason somebody sends
money and forgets to specify the
memo  they actually need to reconcile
memo they actually need to reconcile
the  those two event streams in some
the those two event streams in some
way basically to find the U the
transfers that happened that don't have
a you know transfer with memo
equivalent  and that sounds a bit
equivalent and that sounds a bit
complicated to do I mean it's doable
it's just like you have to to kind of
you do this kind of reconciliation on a
per transaction
basis
so yeah so like  I don't know what
so yeah so like I don't know what
you guys think about about this one
because yeah if if we can get one event
that's the the other ation I starting a
discussion right that was  I think the
discussion right that was I think the
the type of problem we  we have in
the type of problem we we have in
that context
is how does  extensions to a standard
is how does extensions to a standard
on as an event right like how do they
look
like  right now like we're saying
like right now like we're saying
maybe we keep adding topics to the to
the
event the problem I see with doing that
if we're not  like super careful on on
if we're not like super careful on on
on that
is you know as you add more extensions
to like how does that work like you you
know to keep  you know they are
know to keep you know they are
basically  Index right in the in some
basically Index right in the in some
arrays
so  if you only implementing one of
so if you only implementing one of
those extension you know extension
number 20 does that mean you have to put
a bunch of voids you know like in the
you know up to 20 basically  that's
you know up to 20 basically that's
that the type of things that happens in
that World
and  yeah who manages the
and yeah who manages the
the namespace I mean the name spacing
here being you know just a number but
there's a bit of that question that kind
of  pops
of pops
up in this case it probably makes sense
I think you mentioned this it it would
make sense for the topics to be in the
data field  not the topics and you
data field not the topics and you
would you if you turn the data into a
map then you only look look for what you
care about I age
extending topics definely the extensions
would  have their own  name of sort
would have their own name of sort
like maybe here would say memos or
something and then that's a string and
then that's how you can then have a
custom data attached to
it yeah that's the cleanest option Le is
that what you were is that what you were
thinking too  yeah my point was just
thinking too yeah my point was just
to move them out of the topics in
general I mean I I think in general the
memo probably don't belong there like
filtering on the memo IDs is  is
filtering on the memo IDs is is
getting a little too granular like we
these topics are meant to be like things
that you could filter on  that you
that you could filter on that you
know most people are going to want to
filter on because I I think maybe George
you can confirm this like I think the
RPC or different systems have to index
these topics so like we've already got
four topics like once you start adding
more topics it's like
PE
yeah yeah I I agree I don't think the
memo needs to be a topic but the and for
the the same reasons that you know Nik
is mentioning too like having to add in
all these voids like now we got six
topics and then like you get to like 20
topics eventually when there's even more
extensions this doesn't
really  it doesn't create an interface
really it doesn't create an interface
that's intuitive at all I
think but I think this is like one of
the nice things about the separate event
the transfer of memo event is it's it's
very very explicit like you know if you
if you want to ingest  if you're
if you want to ingest if you're
looking at an operation and there's a
transfer and a transfer of memo and you
care about me if you don't care about
memos for starters you just don't you
just don't care about that other event
and if you do care about memos then
you can adjust that one instead for that
operation but like I like I was saying
though Exchange is care about
both because they need
to to basically ingest those transfer
with no MOS because that's basically how
they can  you know through tech
they can you know through tech
support or
whatever  they can return the money to
whatever they can return the money to
the
sender yeah so for them like there is
this other issue that's I feel like this
has come up like so many times  that
has come up like so many times that
there's this other issue that okay now
we have two events so then they have to
figure out not double processing them
not double counting them  and I I I
not double counting them and I I I
think we shouldn't not do this for that
reason because we should solve that
problem or we should have a story for
that for
that  for how to solve that problem it
that for how to solve that problem it
doesn't necessarily have to be solved
today but it's something we should
solve whether that be through like I
think you know we've talked about ideas
like an invocation ID so then you just
say like okay like this this memo and
this other transfer they're in the same
invocations  I don't double count the
invocations I don't double count the
other one or something like
that yeah unfortunately I I feel like
invocation w't help here like there was
an unrated discussion which is unrated
now about like what if a
token  wants to  charge s during a
token wants to charge s during a
transfer for example and you'll have an
for example to transfer events that are
actually separate transfer events  in
actually separate transfer events in
general I feel like if we were to come
up with a good event linking mechanism
it would be almost exactly the same
thing as converting data into map like
almost because what I think we could do
is say like for the event we can say
what is some special link in a and you
know you can think of every event with
assembly in caned is a part of the same
event but at this point honestly like
why don't just make data
map because I think that's the only way
really to prevent double counter is like
you have unambiguous way to say like you
know these two events are actually
describing the same things that has
happened  so maybe map is really it's
happened so maybe map is really it's
right way to go
sure so that's what it's  I guess we
sure so that's what it's I guess we
can maybe discuss it offline we have
maybe 10 minutes left but the one of the
questions to answer is do we either use
a new event or make a breaking change to
the data field and make it a map
is that right does that sound
good I I guess have a question I don't
know how like consumers of those things
you know what they do but like if if
it was an extra field at the
end of the event that is
added would that really
like like be a much of a breaking in
change basically like  like people are
change basically like like people are
just using the index zero whatever like
you know
the I mean it's already an array right
so like at theend you talk about the
topic or the data data the data isn't an
array right now it's a an
integer that's the breaking change like
making yeah that's a pretty big breaking
change yeah I thought it was like we had
a vector
already originally it was a map and then
I think it got changed to a vector and
then I think got changed to an
integer
okay so yeah we have that question to
answer  and for the
answer and for the
the transer memo prop like function
versus Deus proposal I think the yeah
that what we want to do is prototype
what that looks like in the SDK to see
what it looks like so that that's the
I'm guessing I think that's the status
of that question that is number  three
of that question that is number three
right go ahead that's that's a
suggestion yeah I mean that that's I
think it's a good idea my suggestion is
if we're if we're leaning towards that
approach we absolutely should spike out
what the develop contract developer
experiences  because I I don't think
experiences because I I don't think
for something that I suspect will be as
intrusive to the developer experience on
the contract developer side I don't
think we should trade that off for the
benefit of clients not having to unpack
an M address because I think both of
these things obviously have a cost
there's a cost saying to wallet clients
you have to unpack an M address to put
it into the to the SDK
but
that's yeah I think I would prefer that
cost
over
MX addresses and and Mos sort of
intrusive intrusively entering every to
implementation but this is why to SP it
I think just you know to see how bad
that
is and to see what surprises there are I
think you know one thing that came up in
the the chat  was in the past we've
the the chat was in the past we've
been concerned about  M addresses
been concerned about M addresses
accidentally being having balances stor
against them  and that's one reason
against them and that's one reason
why we wouldn't want to add the M
address to the main address type  it
address to the main address type it
it just be so easy for a developer just
to store balances against the M but then
that then that that's not accessible to
to use by the G by the G address
requiring or or something okay  the
I noticed that even with this
proposal that problem could still occur
if I'm understanding correctly like this
m address will be convertible with Val
so that it can be used as an
input  and so in theory you'd be able
input and so in theory you'd be able
to store it as well oh I mean same can
be said about transfer like you can do
whatever sorts of stupid things in your
contract like nothing PR you from
storing some inders in storage for no
reason yeah but there's like if
something's going to become a thing that
people shouldn't do we shouldn't set
them up to fail but but also yeah that's
what I wanted to say like if you're
concerned about this like you can
just make it impossible to make this
keep  prevent people doing themselves
keep prevent people doing themselves
you know
I'm not sure we can I'm I'm not sure
we can with the existing  the way the
we can with the existing the way the
rust type system is so I mean obviously
we can do anything we want if
we Val implementation no no we can we
can do this as the host level yeah I'm
not saying it's SDK level can just make
it
fail but these types are just a these
types are just a contract type right is
is MX address cont it is it is a c Val
like we can say like if your leer key SC
contains a maxed address
you just will not trate
it right totally totally
do we could do that if it's anywhere in
the anywhere like if it's inside a VC or
if it's
inside  like a nested type or
inside like a nested type or
something like that is that what I'm
saying yeah yes we we have similar
checks to what like we make sure that
you you know cannot
create AAL or C out of non-representable
types and stuff like this so defin have
validations like that not in the St
specifically but  you know they pretty
specifically but you know they pretty
flexible in host in terms of like
restriction types so really I was
thinking about this as well like if
you're concerned which is a valid
concern like you know to not shoot
yourself in a EG like you still will be
able to probably extract an integer and
if you really want to you will be able
to store like this for for some reason
but the same can be said about transfer
Le you need to be very intentional about
doing something bad and we can prevent
the most obvious mistake which is we
just write in Mar address  window
just write in Mar address window
storage  this is
preventable okay
so we  that that's question number
so we that that's question number
that's that was the decision number
three we still have to figure that out
like a lot of complexity it feels like
we're discussing a lot of complexity
just yeah
yeah just to improve that one little
thing at the
CL okay then for decision two I think we
agreed that we should that the output
should have the event should have G Plus
memo right instead of just the
mend
and I guess one is tied to three
right like the G Plus versus M for
input  so I guess that's something we
input so I guess that's something we
still need
to we still need to answer it are there
any we're running out of time are there
any other open
questions sounds like we still have
some stuff to discuss
yes I guess the question on the yeah
single event or not right that's number
four by going back to this right like
this one is
it could be a I mean it's a breaking
change potentially right if it's a
for  like the downstream  you know
for like the downstream you know
like
like systems right that are
ingesting  I don't necessarily think
ingesting I don't necessarily think
that it's
U like as a breaking change like that
it's not necessarily like insurmountable
right like it's a basically it's like
kind of like the type of thing you do in
you know in in many situations we can
allow like we have to allow in the token
standard that it's either
a  single
a single
amount or a
or or some or something something else
right and then you have to dynamically
Downstream then U do something different
based on either the type
or or or if it's you know I guess it's
the type yeah that that tries this yeah
you're talking about making the data
field a map right if it was a map or or
a vector yeah yeah I yeah  we we've
a vector yeah yeah I yeah we we've
discussed this a bit internally there
doesn't seem it is a breaking change but
there doesn't seem to be much opposition
to this
we can bring this back up if if it
helps in this case yeah I think I think
to like the way we would do this if if
this memo thing is a separate Set  and
this memo thing is a separate Set and
an extension we'd make a change to set
41 as well as the extension so like SE
40 ideally we'd change set 41 so that
it says that the field could be an
amount or or a map that contains an
amount yeah  so that if folks are
amount yeah so that if folks are
developing they they're not they don't
feel like they need to use just the
amount if the for non-mo
transfers yeah mount as an integer fi
definitely has to be a part of the
standard like we cannot decate it
because the historical events have it
already
yeah would remove it we just say that
both all right now we're out of time so
this there's are there any other
questions or concerns right now
continue adding them to the chat and
we can we can address them and we'll
continue continue any any open questions
in the  GitHub
discussions all right thank you